Design goals of mitime:
  - structure time more simply, thereby creating a structure that is more intuitive, possibly more meaningful,
  - this new structure must be compatible with the standard time structure being simplified, minimizing translation between the two levels.

As I tried to think of better time structures, I realized that I had too few constraints to begin making meaningful progress. I had too few criteria for what a better structure might look like, or how to compare one structure's effectiveness against another's. I needed a higher level of abstraction, a tool to create the tool, which led me to create a process for defining structural configurations within certain constraints, which I have later labelled "mitimezones". 

I decided to think about the simplest structure possible and using it as a template, abstract a formula for creating that structure from it, so that alternative structures with the same basic constraints as the original template can be easily created.

The simplest level of organization I could think of is splitting something once to create equal halves. The simplest next step seemed to be repeating the process recursively on each half of the current generation to create a new generation of halves. I stopped when I thought I was at the point of diminitioning value for complexity, which turned out to be at precisely this point, the creation of the second generation, leaving me with quarters.

Because we measure standard time uniformly at different scales, I decided to do the same here, which allowed me to continue recurively dividing by half within a conceptually simplifying structure. To each division in the original scale, I recursively applied the same halving process described above, also stopping at the same point of diminishing value, creating a new scale of quarters.

Recursively creating two new scales using the original as a template brought me to a clear point of diminishing value overall. If fact, I think there are are many times when only two scales are necessary, and a third adds too much complexity for the value it gives. This is more likely to be true of time planning uses of this structure. However, for time tracking uses, a smaller, more precise scale may be useful for many reasons, and has an analog in the structure of standard time that maps well to it: quarters of hours.

That days are measure as 24 hours long is quite convenient, because as a factor of 12, which is divisible by many small whole numbers, and doubling the scale gives us access to divisions 8 hours long. This 8 hours corresponds to many ingrained cultural norms, such as the length of the work day, and the length of time sleeping, the two most powerful real-world constraints on our time.

Mitime is essentially this, although I did eventually decide to introduce the concepts of zero mitime and mistart. These may seem like oddly specific artificial constructions that add more complexity than value, and clearly, they certainly do add complexity. For example, we could add constraints that say that all midais are 24 standard/mihours in length and that the "starting point" corresponds to 12 midnight, two concepts which map directly onto standard time conventions. However, I decided to add these ideas to reinforce several other important organizing concepts, such as the idea that mitime is only about potentially productive time, and that as a general rule, each day should start at the same time. The latter is a specific decision that has to be made in advance.
